this is a land of myth and legend said
to be home to the Queen of Sheba and
King Solomon's Mines for centuries tales
of treasure on these islands drew
explorers and fortune hunters I'd
arrived at the 700 year old monastery of
arachidonic
oh my goodness inside vivid
wall-paintings tell the story of
Ethiopia's spectacular heritage
Christianity was declared a state
religion here in the 4th century
this isn't a religion that was imposed
on Ethiopia by missionaries this is
homegrown Christianity long before it
was the religion of the Roman Empire it
was the religion here in Ethiopia
Ethiopia was the first Christian Kingdom
in the world but it wasn't the only
major religion to find an early foothold
here before Christianity Judaism had
arrived and according to legend this
area has been the resting place for one
of Religions holiest treasures for
almost 3,000 years
an artifact precious to Jewish people
are many Christians and Muslims as well
it's said to be guarded by priests of
the Ethiopian church amazing myths and
legends surrounding the monasteries of
Lake Tana the greatest of which surely
is that one of them housed the Ark of
the Covenant for a while so the arm that
held the tablets on which were written
the Ten Commandments
[Music]
the story is that the queen of sheba
came from alone but we now call Ethiopia
went to visit King Solomon in Israel
she'd heard stories of his great wisdom
wanted to meet him turned up there they
got on very well so well in fact they
had a son together he went home with his
mum but went back to visit his dad when
he was a young man and when he returned
home to Ethiopia among his entourage was
brought the Ark of the Covenant it was
apparently kept safe in a monastery on
Lake Tana and now according to many
Ethiopians is still here in the country
[Music]
you